#summary The history of provider versions' changes

It's concidered good form to keep the history of changes of provider versions. It helps the users to know what advantages and new possibilities they get when installing a new version of a provider.

For that you should add to provider a file `history.xml`, outline it in the section `files` [Manifest of the manifest] under `history` tag. When making changes in the provider and increasing its version in file `history.xml` you should jot down what changes have been made.

History file has the following structure
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<history>
    <change major_version="1.2" version="18" date="2012-07-07">
      - Modified for keeping the versions history
    </change>
    <change major_version="1.1" version="17">
      - Displaying an error when having problems with website
    </change>
    <change major_version="1.1" version="16">
      - Dispalying traffic by numeric counter (in Mb). To display you should choose the counter again.
    </change>
</history>
}}}

As you can see this is just the listing of  `change` tags, each of that contains information about changes in version specified in the `version` attribute. Just the essence of changes in text format is written in the boby of `change` tag.

`change` may contain the following attributes
 * `version` - an obligatory attribute (a whole number), specifies the provider version, the changes for which are located this `change`. Should match the  `version` attribute of 'id` tag[Manifest of the manifest].
 * `major_version` - a textual part of the version, that was in the provider version for which the changes are described. Matches the attribute `major_version` of `id` tag [Manifest of the manifest]. Optional attribute. Should be specified if the textual part of the version is outlined in the manifest.
 * `date` - the date of version changing. In format `YYYY-MM-DD`. Optional attribute.